Question 1. Write short note on CPU scheduling algorithms

What is CPU Scheduling?
CPU Scheduling is a process of determining which process will own 
CPU for execution while another process is on hold. The main task 
of CPU scheduling is to make sure that whenever the CPU remains
idle, the OS at least select one of the processes available in 
the ready queue for execution. The selection process will be
carried out by the CPU scheduler. It selects one of the processes
in memory that are ready for execution.

Types of CPU Scheduling
Here are two kinds of Scheduling methods:

1)Preemptive Scheduling
2)Non-Preemptive Scheduling


Important CPU scheduling Terminologies
Burst Time/Execution Time: It is a time required by the process to
complete execution. It is also called running time.

Arrival Time: when a process enters in a ready state

Finish Time: when process complete and exit from a system

Multiprogramming: A number of programs which can be present in 
memory at the same time.

Jobs: It is a type of program without any kind of user interaction.

User: It is a kind of program having user interaction.

Process: It is the reference that is used for both job and user.

CPU/IO burst cycle: Characterizes process execution, which 
alternates between CPU and I/O activity. CPU times are usually 
shorter than the time of I/O.

Question 2. What is preemptive vs non preemptive scheduling algos

PREEMPTIVE SCHEDULING: is a CPU scheduling technique that works by 
dividing time slots of CPU to a given process. The time slot given
might be able to complete the whole process or might not be able 
to it. When the burst time of the process is greater than CPU 
cycle, it is placed back into the ready queue and will execute in
the next chance. This scheduling is used when the process switch 
to ready state.

Algorithms that are backed by preemptive Scheduling are round-robin (RR)
,priority, SRTF (shortest remaining time first).

NON-PREEMPTIVE SCHEDULING : is a CPU scheduling technique the 
process takes the resource (CPU time) and holds it till the process
gets terminated or is pushed to the waiting state. No process is 
interrupted until it is completed, and after that processor 
switches to another process.

Algorithms that are based on non-preemptive Scheduling are 
non-preemptive priority, and shortest Job first.

Question 3. Write the best and/or practical scheduling algo, with reason ?
FCFS
	First Come First Serve (FCFS) is an operating system scheduling
    algorithm that automatically executes queued requests and processes 
    in order of their arrival. It is the easiest and simplest CPU 
    scheduling algorithm. In this type of algorithm, processes which
    requests the CPU first get the CPU allocation first. This is 
    managed with a FIFO queue. The full form of FCFS is First Come 
    First Serve.
	
SJF
	Shortest Job First (SJF) is an algorithm in which the process
    having the smallest execution time is chosen for the next execution.
    This scheduling method can be preemptive or non-preemptive. 
    It significantly reduces the average waiting time for other processes
    awaiting execution. The full form of SJF is Shortest Job First.

Round Robin
	The name of this algorithm comes from the round-robin principle,
    where each person gets an equal share of something in turns. 
    It is the oldest, simplest scheduling algorithm, which is mostly
    used for multitasking.